Video 114, 115

Server made framework

npm init :  for Package.json files
npm -v : Version
npm start :  Code run
npm i express : Install Express



node JS
With install 1 thing is NPM

nodemon : Autometic Refresh

type (npm init)

may forgot something

NodeJS apps Server Side is called Package.

JavaScript Called applet

sometime command is long not short most of time.

Package folder on root top , level , Working Directory.

Programming capability ko liberaris use hoti hen.

Google Search :  ExpressJS
https://expressjs.com/


Package.JSON must on the root in working directory in the folder.


Express is kind of liberary and Bunch of function ,
Express.MJS bhi Liberary he aur Framework he.

Framework is just of formate difference.

$ mkdir myapp
$ cd myapp
For making new folder .

npm :  is the node package manager. jitni liberaries likhi gai hen yaha publish , Andriod app in AppStore all publisher will publish here.

NPM is official is most traffic, 

NPM init

node JS app package khte he
JavaScript applet

Makesure your file on root working directory, not in folder

Axois internet request krne k kam ata he

publish developer

web Browser send request to Server and get Data

what is Server?
Realtime Storage : It is in DataBase

aesa system jo hr waqt on he koi request bhje th us ko dekho

npm start : Package.JSON k ander ye Start ki script he wo chl jae gi

Programming languages capabilities extend krne k lye 
Moment JS time to reach 
Express JS Is the liberary.

Difference B/w Liberary and Framework

NPM : is node package manager

App Store me log publish wohi krte hen npm is official for liberaries

Make use SUDO : is Super Do
some command any folder create th SUDO Lagana prhta he.

npm wagera k ilawa bhi aur stores hen Yarn party wagera ka.

In the First place what is Server
21st Century Eye open

Web Browser Server ko request bhjta he woha se data ata he.

network k through data hota he
1 aesa system he jo har waqt on he koi request bhje th listen

is Server is Hardware he ya Software
Noushad Arzo :  anything you want to know is in Name

Server :  mean Serve krna, Serve krne wala hota he.

Server is not an Hardware is only software.

Humadity is : Dry mode is the best

Server Software : Resourses bht chahiye.

IBM : any computer Hardware bnane wale companies.

Server Machine is operate 24/7 hours is trha ki requirement hoti thi,

Personal Computer : Robest ksm ke Computer,
Shop wala Server Computer he ye le jao, is only Tag line , like to operate server basically is software.

Server ka Software : app kahi bhi chala skte ho

Response me jo hena wo single string la raha hota he.

Your Orignal IP , Search Google what is my real IP, It will provide you.

Port Forwarding, Open kr k de. Real Server.
Request bheje ge th ye bhje ga

Person to touch is User Interface i.e Button

API :  Application Programming Interface.
GUI :  Graphical User Interface

Programming Interface like btn AC Understand by the AC only no one could

Wifi - Cell btn on Off,  Mobile 192.168
can contact
Remote Fan, AC, Projector that

Laptop Wireless mouse
Chrome Cast chota sa, allow to laptop screen to mirror, Google Contact that device to connect

API call btn behind the scence API call hogi

Background : Tempreture & Humadity.
Maping on Screen,
Server is Machine.

Server se API Expose. AC API
Expose the API is HTTP API is Over the Internet can Access the this API.

UI : User Interface : Mobile Touch Screen

UI : interface for the user
Programming Interface : Machine own work

close source of the UI

WIFI: btn search an available networks.
our internet is residential internet: have a several restrictions.

Port Forwarding krna all world me chle ga
AWS, Google many Machines
cloud termonology: device term these computer connected with the Internet.

Internet is Inter Connected Computer.
Cloud is Internet conncect 
Google cloud
AWS
Ali Baba
Microsoft Esured Cloud


on other hand for home use it is too much Expenses.

60 to 70 Lakh rs computer.
Moduler hardDrive may demage.
Ram : 80 GB
Ram may also khrab
Dynamic : 25K Sweeper min


on primisess server Lakh rs Month
Wear tear different.
500 MB : Internet Letency avoid 
1Lakh MB : swa 8.25 GB
8 * 8 = 64 GBPS ka internet ho
5 se 6 GBPS ka internet
small Server Rusbury Pie
at a time 2 se 4 user 

8500 Seconds
25,92,000 : 25 Lak total request rubury pie bhi approperate rhta he.
Customer Aquisition No issue :
Rusbri pie 50$ , 15,000, shipment ke saath 19,000

Google is free 25Lak wla card lga KYC krwa do hmri
M2 K hard Drive. Rubers system.
Law Inforcement : Militery : 
911 : data produce, FBI CIA

On Primisses: Banks other Law inforcement dept

Data Breach : 
My data is as useless as I am

FaceBook : cloud partner AWS.

npm i : command for nodde modules folder npm install is also same

Package-lock-json : file should not change bu hand it default maintain by own, 
npm khud dkh raha hota he
multiple liberaries install kuch liberaries kuch version kisi dusri k saath competable nhi ho rahe hote.


Enviornment Variable har machine me hota he
const port = process.env.PORT || 3000;
Convention of port must in capital Letter.

Cloud for the Google, AWS, Railways
Cyclic allow us 3 free apps to run


SERVER has many types:

our server is Web Server
Email Server
Domain name Server
Data Centers
Data Werehouse
FTP : File 
Streaming 
Broad Casting : Televesion
RTCs Servers : Video calls
Gaming Server: real me webServer

all are webServer : Server - wire se - Wirelessly - over the Internet.

WebServer : Frontend Application bat server ka koi GUI & UI nhi hoti hen
API's hoti hen

wire : data move kese hta he idhr se udhr
optical Fiber: me light jati : Someone
Photo send krne k Translate hogi then jah bhj
data translate into signals
Internet : was made for Military use purples communication setup
Early Internet : ishara set
Cadualities
Binary number : Data Packet

Internet wire : High current and low current
high = 5 valt;  low = 2.5 valt
Fiber optic cable:
RJ 45 : WIFI
interior designing : Fiber Obtics.
1 second is 1 data considered

1 second itime 1T,
wese th bht se calculation hen
1 second 1 bit bhjta hun
data thourhg wire is the networking field
data Back and forth kese ho raha hota he
hame is ki software side pe rhna he.
frontend se jo request jae gi us k 2 part huge
1 HEAD  2 BODY
get post put delete
create a new resource on serve
put request
AXIOS : khud dekh leta lenth side of the server
kisi ne slash user bhja kyu k he hi nhi response jae ga 404.

shortest part to america
PTCL server DNS
Tranworld Mrine cable 
through the routing table
4 Status code : HTTP requst code Sucessful or fail or not.
5 data he th lenth kya size kya he.
AXIOS se api call nhi ki
FAX: 
AXIOS : Wheather APP : open Whether api
JavaScript k object wale class k age pech hoge.

Header k andr jo bhi bten wo server khud hi bna lega Express ka server

bane ga th sab lkn hm nhi kre ge Framework ye kam krega.

npm start start se koi bhi changes krte hun th server ko 2bara rok k chlana prta he.

nodemon server.mjs
nodemon space file ka name
Earylier Node File ka name
nodemon for Automatic Restart.

first time command to solve 
Sudo npm i -g nodemon
npm i -g nodemon for deskstop

agr windows me issue aae th app cmd ya run as administrative krte ussi k equal he sudo.

start ka srf bgr run ke chlta he baki k saath RUN lagana prta he.


npm run dev : command

"dev": "nodemon Server.mjs" :
 code in Package.json file
 dev ki jaga koi name likh skte phr terminal me bhi wohi lkhna hoga

npm run dev se request live mere computer k andr andr

web Browser : localhost:3000/weather

Broser se jo request jati hena wo srf get ki hoti he.

index.html ka folder public k folder me lgana he.


AXIOS liberaries link
https://axios-http.com/docs/intro
in website installation section 
2 CDN 
JS Delivr CDN,  unpkg CDN

video : 116

getting error when operating code.
cors download krna install krna prta he

bcuz we our host
Cors: cross origin request handling k lye hota he ye
Cors : Install      -> npm i cors
lgane triqa : 

params : URL prameters k lye params use krte hen



















